# WAPH-Web Application Programming and Hacking
## Instructor: Dr. Phu Phung

# Individual Project 1
## Front-end Web Development with a Professional Profile Website on github.io cloud service

[https://bchap9.github.io](https://bchap9.github.io)

## Overview 

In this project, I used all of the knowledge I have gained to this point about web programing to create a personal home page. Using github.io pages I created a personal home page which includes a personal and professional bio. The page also includes demonstrations of using various things such as JavaScript, jQuery, and 3rd party APIs.

### General requirements (30 pts): 

Using Bootstrap, I created a basic homepage which included navigation of the page and site as well as sections for each part of the bio. This page included a headshot and various parts of my resume. The top navigation bar for this page includes a button to direct to a second page which includes details about the WAPH course.
 ​
### Non-technical requirements (20 pts)​

For implementing a tracker, I chose to use Google Analytics. Implementing this tracker was as simple as registering an account and embedding a ```<script>``` tag which was generated by Google Analytics.

### Technical requirements (50 pts)​

#### Basic JavaScript code (20 pts)​

+ In the "Contact Me" section of the personal home page, I used jQuery to implement a "Show/Hide Email". This function changes the text displayed in a ```<div>``` using the ```onClick``` function in HTML. 

+ Public APIs

    1. Using the JokeAPI a new joke is displayed inline every minute. This data is parsed using JSON in the JavaScript code to display only the joke and filter the accompanying data.

    2. Next, using similar GET methods to the JokeAPI, I integrated a dog facts API. When the Dog Fact button is clicked, a random dog fact is returned. This was accomplished using jQuery and JavaScript

+ Using JavaScript and the ```document.cookie``` function, the users computer will prompt "Welcome to my homepage for the first time" on the first visit. On subsequent visits, the welcome message will say "Welcome back for the X time. Your last visit was XXX". On each page load, the cookie is updated to provide the proper message on the following page load.

## Deliverables and Submission

You need to submit **three** deliverables in PDF files for grading:

+ Your report mentioned above.

+ Your deployed website printed from a browser in PDF.

+  The source code of your deployed website printed from a browser in PDF.